To work in cyber security you need to be familiar with typical environments,
operating systems, and tools.
In this course, we'll mainly focus on the Windows 10 operating system,
since it's the predominant platform for most end-users and business.
It's okay if you don't have one to use as we'll give you access to one.
Most Windows operating systems come with built-in security tools.
Some of the Windows components you'll use are the Control Panel,
Computer Management, and Local Security Policies.
I'll describe each one of these native Windows capabilities in depth in future videos.
There are also other tools that help you as a cybersecurity professional,
these include Sysinternals Suite.
We use these utilities to troubleshoot, diagnose,
and manage Windows operating systems and applications.
Windows God Mode, which is simply a shortcut folder
containing Windows utilities found in the Control Panel and Computer Management.
NMap network mapper, which is a tool for mapping networks.
You can see the device and IP addresses on a network.
7-Zip, a simple application for
compressing files that can also be used for simple encryption.
Now let me show you how to use these different tools.
The first group of security tools I encourage you to check out,
it is called the Sysinternal Suite.
They've actually been around from over 15 years,
and I use these daily to help me manage Windows systems.
They are freely available from microsoftdocs.microsoft.com Sysinternals. You can Bing it.
I say Bing because it's Microsoft of course.
With this suite of tools,
you can better administer Windows systems.
Once you download and unzip the Sysinternal tools,
you'll be given a folder with all of these tools.
You can use them to create multiple desktops for clocks.
One of my favorites though is called Autoruns.
Let me show you what it looks like.
I am now running the program Autoruns from Sysinternals Suite.
Have you ever had a program start on a Windows machine that you can't figure it out?
How to stop it from starting?
Autoruns will solve this.
When you open it,
it will show you all of the different potential programs that could be starting.
If there is a checkbox next to one of the applications,
then it automatically starts when your Windows system starts.
For example, I have a Wondershare Helper that's
automatically starting even though the file is no longer found.
To stop it, simply uncheck it.
There's no more actions you need to take.
Autoruns is a must have as part of your security toolkit.
There are many other programs available through the Sysinternal Suite.
Download it and try it.
On the exercise Windows 10 system you're given as part of this course,
Sysinternals Suite should be available giving
you an opportunity to learn a little bit more about it.
The next tool I'm going to show you is called God Mode.
All this does, it's like an Easter egg on Windows.
It creates a folder with all of the administrator commands.
To enable God Mode on a Windows 10 system,
you need to know the secret code and it's not really very secret.
I just saved it in Google to make it easy,
to enable a folder on your desktop with God Mode, really easy.
What you do is you just need to create a new folder,
and then rename it using the special code, hit "Enter".
Now you'll see a special Control Panel icon with no name associated with it.
When you open it,
you will actually see it named God Mode,
and these are all of the different control tasks tools.
Rather than trying to search through the Control Panel with Windows,
you now have one folder,
makes it so much easier to administer Windows system.
Another tool I want to show you is called Nmap,
which is a simply a network mapper.
It looks for IP addresses on a particular network.
Whatever network you ask it to explore,
you can learn about it at nmap.org.
There will be a whole session about using Nmap later in the course.
This is just a tickler,
go out to nmap.org,
begin to learn about it.